We apologize for this inconvenience. Your IP address has been automatically blocked from the address you tried to visit at www.gutenberg.org. This is because the geoIP database shows your address is in the country of Germany.

Diagnostic information:

Blocked at germany.shtml
Your IP address: 46.5.19.100
Referrer URL (if available): http://www.gutenberg.org/browse/scores/top
Browser: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14_1) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0.1 Safari/605.1.15
Date: Saturday, 01-Dec-2018 07:41:58 GMT

Why did this block occur?

A Court in Germany ordered that access to certain items in the Project Gutenberg collection are blocked from Germany. Project Gutenberg believes the Court has no jurisdiction over the matter, but until the issue is resolved during appeal, it will comply.

For more information about the German court case, and the reason for blocking all of Germany rather than single items, visit PGLAF's information page about the German lawsuit.

For more information about the legal advice Project Gutenberg has received concerning international issues, visit PGLAF's International Copyright Guidance for Project Gutenberg

How can I get unblocked?

All IP addresses in Germany are blocked. This block will remain in place until legal guidance changes.

If your IP address lookup is incorrect

Use the Maxmind GeoIP demo to verify status of your IP address. Project Gutenberg updates its listing of IP addresses approximately monthly.

I have other questions or need to report an error

Please email the diagnostic information to

help2018 @ pglaf.org
(removing the spaces around the @) and we will try to help. Adjustment of the blocking software in early 2018 has resulted in some "false positives" -- that is, blocks that should not have occurred. If that happened to you, please let us know so we can keep adjusting the software. Apologies if this happened, because human users outside of Germany who are making use of the eBooks or other site features should almost never be blocked.